README.md, before:

---

# Astro Portfolio

This template helps you build a portfolio using Astro, Tailwind CSS, and Shadcn UI.

## Design

![View 1](public/View1.png)
![View 2](public/View2.png)

## Inspiration

This project was inspired by several outstanding portfolios. Here are some that served as references:

- [Gianmarco Portfolio](https://gianmarco.xyz/)
- [Vitesse Portfolio](https://astro-theme-vitesse.netlify.app/)
- [Gurido Portfolio](https://gurido.vercel.app/)

## Technologies Used

This project utilizes the following technologies:

- **Astro**: A modern framework for building fast and efficient websites.
- **Tailwind CSS**: A utility-first CSS framework for rapid and responsive design.
- **Shadcn UI**: A collection of accessible and easy-to-use UI components.
- **React**: For interactive components and advanced functionality.

## Requirements

Before starting, make sure you have the following requirements installed:

- Node.js (version 14 or higher)
- npm or yarn

## Installation

To install and run the project locally, follow these steps:

1. Clone this repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/bue221/astro-portfolio.git
   ```

2. Navigate to the project directory:

   ```bash
   cd astro-portfolio
   ```

3. Install the dependencies:

   ```bash
   npm install
   # or
   yarn install
   ```

4. Start the development server:

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   # or
   yarn dev
   ```

5. Open your browser and visit `http://localhost:3000` to see your portfolio in action.

## Project Structure

A brief overview of the project structure:

- **/public**: Images and other static files.
- **/src**: Contains all Astro components and pages.
- **/styles**: Custom CSS files.
- **astro.config.mjs**: Main configuration for Astro.
- **tailwind.config.js**: Configuration for Tailwind CSS.

## Important Considerations

- **Accessibility**: Ensure your portfolio is accessible to all users, including those with disabilities.
- **SEO**: Optimize your portfolio for search engines by adding meta tags and relevant content.
- **Performance**: Use modern web development practices to ensure optimal performance, such as lazy loading images and minimizing CSS/JS.
- **Responsive Design**: Make sure your portfolio looks good on devices of all sizes, from mobile to desktop screens.

This project use Contentful to fetch data from the API. and load your projects section, if you want to use your contentful data add variables to your .env file.

## Contributions

Contributions are welcome! If you have ideas or improvements, please open an issue or submit a pull request.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

---

Commit message:

Refactor portfolio page to use static project data instead of Contentful
- Removed Contentful client integration and related environment variables.
- Added static project data directly in the portfolio.astro file.
- Created a new empty data file and a new projects.json file for future use.

README.md, after:

---

# Astro Portfolio

This template helps you build a portfolio using Astro, Tailwind CSS, and Shadcn UI.

## Design

![View 1](public/View1.png)
![View 2](public/View2.png)

## Inspiration

This project was inspired by several outstanding portfolios. Here are some that served as references:

- [Gianmarco Portfolio](https://gianmarco.xyz/)
- [Vitesse Portfolio](https://astro-theme-vitesse.netlify.app/)
- [Gurido Portfolio](https://gurido.vercel.app/)

## Technologies Used

This project utilizes the following technologies:

- **Astro**: A modern framework for building fast and efficient websites.
- **Tailwind CSS**: A utility-first CSS framework for rapid and responsive design.
- **Shadcn UI**: A collection of accessible and easy-to-use UI components.
- **React**: For interactive components and advanced functionality.

## Requirements

Before starting, make sure you have the following requirements installed:

- Node.js (version 14 or higher)
- npm or yarn

## Installation

To install and run the project locally, follow these steps:

1. Clone this repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/bue221/astro-portfolio.git
   ```

2. Navigate to the project directory:

   ```bash
   cd astro-portfolio
   ```

3. Install the dependencies:

   ```bash
   npm install
   # or
   yarn install
   ```

4. Start the development server:

   ```bash
   npm run dev
   # or
   yarn dev
   ```

5. Open your browser and visit `http://localhost:3000` to see your portfolio in action.

## Project Structure

A brief overview of the project structure:

- **/public**: Images and other static files.
- **/src**: Contains all Astro components and pages.
- **/styles**: Custom CSS files.
- **astro.config.mjs**: Main configuration for Astro.
- **tailwind.config.js**: Configuration for Tailwind CSS.

## Important Considerations

- **Accessibility**: Ensure your portfolio is accessible to all users, including those with disabilities.
- **SEO**: Optimize your portfolio for search engines by adding meta tags and relevant content.
- **Performance**: Use modern web development practices to ensure optimal performance, such as lazy loading images and minimizing CSS/JS.
- **Responsive Design**: Make sure your portfolio looks good on devices of all sizes, from mobile to desktop screens.

This project is built with Astro and includes a portfolio section to showcase your projects and work.

## Contributions

Contributions are welcome! If you have ideas or improvements, please open an issue or submit a pull request.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

---
